# class-notes-on-interactive-art

# What Is a Game?

What is a Game?: Crash Course Games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QPqR2wOs8WI

Why Do We Play Games? by Vsauce
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e5jDspIC4hY

My Definition of 'Game' by Chris Crawford
http://www.erasmatazz.com/library/the-journal-of-computer/jcgd-volume-4/my-definition-of-game.html

Cow Clicker by Ian Bogost
http://bogost.com/games/cow_clicker/

BF Skinner & Positive Reinforcement
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qG2SwE_6uVM&feature=youtu.be&t=430

## Serious Games

Dumb Ways To Die by McCann
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/dumb-ways-to-die/

Lim by Merritt Kopas
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/lim/

Parable of the Polygons by Nicky Case & Vi Hart
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/parable-of-the-polygons/

Papers, Please
http://www.slate.com/blogs/future_tense/2013/08/23/papers_please_serious_video_game_raises_tricky_moral_questions.html

Darfur is Dying
http://www.darfurisdying.com/

Depression Quest by Zoë Quinn, Patrick Lindsey, and music by Isaac Schankler
http://www.depressionquest.com/

Passage by Jason Rohrer
http://hcsoftware.sourceforge.net/passage/

Gravitation by Jason Rohrer
http://hcsoftware.sourceforge.net/gravitation/

Sweatshop
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/sweatshop/

This War of Mine by 11 bit studios
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/this-war-of-mine/

Foldit by University of Washington
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/foldit/

Zombies, Run! by Six to Start
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/zombies-run/

The Dad That Hacked Into Donkey Kong for his Daughter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XFS_xn-EpRY

Creating Games with a Purpose
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QCCFaWnBDlM

## Art-y Games
A Slow Year by Ian Bogost
http://bogost.com/games/aslowyear/

A Slow Year from Ian Bogost on Vimeo
https://vimeo.com/9592601

That Dragon, Cancer by Numinous Games
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/that-dragon-cancer/

Flower, Journey, and Flow by Thatgamecompany
http://thatgamecompany.com/

Flower Trailer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U7IUDWMU6ZI

Journey Trailer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5NlVttFRPpU

Walden, A Game
by USC Game Innovation Lab
http://www.gamesforchange.org/game/featured-game-3/

Games by Daniel Benmergui
http://ludomancy.com/

Today I Die by Daniel Benmergui
http://www.ludomancy.com/games/today.php?lang=en

I Wish I Were The Moon by Daniel Benmergui
http://www.kongregate.com/games/danielben/i-wish-i-were-the-moon

Papa Sangre by Somethin' Else
http://boingboing.net/2010/12/19/papa-sangre-binaural.html
http://www.somethinelse.com/projects/gaming-for-gamers-audio-games/

Entering the Palace of Bones from Papa Sangre on Vimeo
https://vimeo.com/9916119

Façade by Michael Mateas and Andrew Stern
http://www.playabl.ai/past-work/

The Marriage by Rod Humble
http://www.rodvik.com/rodgames/marriage.html

Braid by Jonathan Blow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u7C1qxggPHg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2zK8ItePe3Y

# Are Video Games Art?

Roger Ebert "Video games can never be art"
http://blogs.suntimes.com/ebert/2010/04/video_games_can_never_be_art.html

"X" isn’t a game!
http://www.raphkoster.com/2012/03/13/x-isnt-a-game/

Game Rules as Art
http://www.escapistmagazine.com/articles/view/video-games/issues/issue_41/247-Game-Rules-as-Art

## Interactive Art

Yayoi Kusama’s "Obliteration Room"
http://www.wired.com/beyond_the_beyond/2012/03/showtime-yayoi-kusama-obliteration-room/

Yayoi Kusama’s “Infinity Dots”
http://nymag.com/travel/weekends/pittsburgh/index2.html

Interactive Art Pushes Boundaries of Viewer, Artist
http://www.wired.com/gadgetlab/2009/10/utterback/

Reactive Sparks: Interactive LED Art Responds to Traffic
http://technabob.com/blog/2008/03/28/reactive-sparks-interactive-led-art-responds-to-traffic/

“Guitar Pedals” by David Byrne
http://davidbyrne.com/art/guitar_pedals/

Sleep No More: Interactive Theatre
http://www.coolhunting.com/culture/sleep-no-more.php
http://gizmodo.com/5912789/sleep-no-more-what-its-like-inside-the-worlds-most-interactive-play

Bad Trip by Alan Kwan
http://www.thecreatorsproject.com/blog/explore-someone-elses-mind-using-a-video-game-controller

http://www.fastcodesign.com/1670801/creepy-video-game-lets-you-explore-its-makers-memories

Bad Trip: Navigate My Mind from KwanAlan on Vimeo
https://vimeo.com/47943812

## Games of Chance and Games of Skill
How to Win at Candyland
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CC9ogJy2bwk
Luck and Skill in Games by Skaff Elias
https://youtu.be/2owa2s8GdlM?t=958

## YouTube channels

Crash Course Games
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QPqR2wOs8WI&list=PL8dPuuaLjXtPTrc_yg73RghJEOdobAplG
Wired Game|Life
https://video.wired.com/series/game-life
PBS Game/Show
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCr_2H8pPitVJ85bmpLwFUyQ
Game Maker's Toolkit
https://www.youtube.com/user/McBacon1337
